[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory q and a today i'm going
to be talking all about
the very important topic of how to avoid
distractions if you want to get anything
meaningful done in your life i promise
you the ability to keep yourself on task
to not chase the squirrel or the shiny
object is going to be the key to you
actually making use out of your time and
efficiency is my obsession it's one of
my secret weapons my superpowers if you
will and today we're going to be talking
about exactly what you need to do to
make it one of yours all right so first
question up is
i find myself jumping around the day
feeling scatterbrained even with my
to-do list and non-negotiables written
down i struggle from project to project
finding myself getting distracted by
doing chores around the house
running errands to then finally feeling
overly exhausted before the end of the
day it's not just simple tasks but being
distracted during conversations and just
about every aspect in my life i
literally feel like a dog spotting a
squirrel it's the struggle of beating
distractions and keeping my thoughts
aligned my boyfriend always says to me
close down some browsers what are some
tips to stay focused on one task at a
time and beat the majority of
distractions please help in all caps
okay so number one this is not a sexy
answer but i have a feeling this is
going to come up a lot you want to make
sure that you're optimizing your
cognition so you want to make sure that
you're getting sleep when you are tired
it is crazy the way that you become
scattered things that would have been
easy to keep your focus on
suddenly you're going to have a hard
time your diet needs to be on point you
cannot imagine how much your diet
impacts your brain function
another one getting exercise one of the
things that they'll prescribe for people
with add
adhd is exercise just getting out there
putting in the reps there are huge
rewards um bdnf which is a brain derived
neurotropic factor something that is
like miracle growth for your brain i
forget who says that is not me
but i think that that is a very apt
adage
and it's going to be something that
helps you so this part sort of applies
to i'm sure every question that we're
going to address today you want to make
sure that you get the basics down and
then the last part which definitely
speaks to this in particular when you
find even something like a conversation
you find that your mind is wandering
some of this is just training yourself
to focus so we live in this eternally
distracted society where we're
constantly seeking those dopamine
rewards that you get from checking your
phone or whatever and you didn't list
that as one of the things that
is is your problem but meditation is the
answer sort of regardless of what the
impetus is regardless of what it is that
you find yourself being pulled towards
whether it's the squirrel as you say or
something else training yourself to be
able to extend the period of time where
you're focusing on one thing is going to
be extraordinarily helpful and it can be
as simple as just coming back to the
breath this does not need to be a grand
spiritual thing that you do
though i think there are huge benefits
to meditation on that side but
just
training your attention learning to
apply your attention to the thing that
you want to focus on
is a skill all of this stuff is a
process and once you understand that it
is a process then it becomes something
that you can train and so sitting in a
noisy room it doesn't even need to be a
quiet room in fact it might be better
practice certainly as you get more
advanced to do it in a noisy room so
that you learn when something pulls your
attention that you have control of
bringing it back and in a meditative
practice that's focused around the
breath you would just come back to the
breath in a more
mindfulness approach you would use any
sensation that you can to come back to
this present moment it could be the
the noise that you heard of reminding
you that you're there in that room it
could be if your feet are starting to
tingle because of the way that you're
sitting it's you know feeling your back
against the couch whatever
using something that is
in that moment to remind yourself to be
present to be there not to let your
thoughts drift and you'll find that in
the beginning like man every three
seconds my mind is wandering i'm going
to something else and it may even take
you minutes before you even realize
that your attention is wandered
and in that moment you bring yourself
back to the breath you give yourself
some grace
you don't panic that you have let your
mind wander and you just keep doing that
and day after day you will find in the
beginning it's every three seconds and
then it's every 10 seconds and then you
might be able to stay focused on your
breath for 30 seconds one thing that i
did a lot in the beginning
is i would just count my breaths
and i would find in the beginning i
couldn't complete a single breath cycle
and stay focused on my breath for the
four parts of a breath cycle right the
inhale the inhale hold the exhale the
exhale hold those four parts
that's my meditation practice very
simple four part what they call box
breathing
and it's just box breathing those four
parts make up the four sides of the box
and
uh i couldn't make it through a single
breath without my mind wandering and
then i would get to the point where i
could do 10 breaths and then now i'd say
my record is probably somewhere around
16 or 17 breaths i don't think i've ever
made it to 20. um but that's a pretty
long time when you're breathing slowly i
would say it's
you know maybe two minutes something
like that it's a long time at least for
me to be able to keep my attention
totally uninterrupted on one thing um
and so that might be helpful for you and
just tracking where it is that you're
losing track of the breath where you're
like was it four or
five i you know i don't remember where i
was and just continuing to extend that
out so this is a great reminder that
everything in life is a process and you
can get better at flexing that muscle so
starting with that that would be my
recommendation if you find yourself
constantly being pulled away
all right question number two
what's a strategy i can use to help
resist the distractions that come before
i even start working i feel like i'm
letting these distractions in because i
have so much self-doubt that it hurts
less to pretend i don't have the time to
start oh my god that is amazingly
self-aware i love that it's gonna be a
lot of fun to answer even when i know
that's not true my phone and the
internet in general are huge problems
for me when it comes to keeping focus on
my work sincerely thank you for all you
do okay um
the key here is going to be
one the self-awareness you've already
displayed i just cannot tell you how far
ahead of the game you are that you
recognize that you're lying to yourself
that is really the beginning step so
always being honest with who you are
where you're at what is true for you
even if you can't say it to the outside
world always being willing to admit it
to yourself is so unbelievably powerful
that was something that i i had this
really big crisis in my early 20s where
i realized i was telling everybody that
i wanted to be successful
but the way that i was acting was like i
just wanted to feel good about being
smart
and
i didn't know enough
to be successful if i was always trying
to be the smartest person in the room
and so they came into conflict and i
remember i remember the room i was in
when that occurred to me that hey
if what you want is to just feel smart
you need to quit this company get the
hell out no judgment
if that's what you want to do
fine
i don't want to live in this sort of
sketched out world anymore of where
i talk this big game all my ambition all
the things i'm gonna do but in reality i
spiral out of control the second i feel
stupid
and
i mean it was devastating i would lose
days to being upset and traumatized and
thinking badly about myself when
something would occur that made me feel
dumb so anyway i would argue for bad
ideas just because they were mine i
needed to feel smart and i realized okay
hold on this is this is a thing so no
judgment be honest with yourself and
that opened the world to me once i
wasn't trying to pretend
that i was a certain way and i was just
really honest with myself about who i
was at that moment i was changeable and
i was willing to believe that
but in being honest with where you're at
now you can put together a plan of
action so going back to what i was just
saying in the first question everything
is a process so now you've got the
self-awareness now you know what you're
lying to yourself about now we can begin
to craft strategies rule based
strategies for getting out of that
rules are i think underutilized in
people's lives and
this is something that i use on a daily
basis
and the rules that i have laid out in my
life
allow me to stay on track so for
instance you have a problem in the
morning of facing an inadequacy okay so
you know something about yourself um
that
you're
you like the out of thinking that you
don't have time so that you don't have
to face i set a goal i gave that goal a
deadline and i missed that deadline and
that means punch line of punch lines
that i'm not good enough which is true
if you add the modifier yet i'm not good
enough yet now the thing that's going to
let you off the hook and allow us to
slot in some rules because you're not
fighting against yourself you're now
working for yourself to achieve the
things you want to achieve is to
understand you actually can get good so
it's what i call the only belief that
matters the only belief that matters
is that
if you put time and attention into
getting better at something you'll
actually get better at it not because
you're special not because you're
brighter than the next person because
that
is the physics of the human mind
that's just how the mind works
the truth of being a human is that if
you apply energy into practicing
something and that practice is well done
you will as an inevitable consequence of
that time and energy have a deeper skill
set that skill set has utility it lets
you do something in the world that other
people cannot do
okay so if we know that's true now we
don't need to seek a distraction because
when we realize oh we're not good enough
yet
all that does another layer of
self-awareness it lets us know the thing
that we need to get better at and now if
i apply my time and energy to that thing
i will actually improve so okay cool now
i need rules to make sure that i clear
that space for me to actually get good
at that thing now the only catch there
is it needs to be something that you're
actually excited to get good at right
like imagine that world where you're
truly world class at that thing right
the only thing that stands between you
and being world class at anything you
care about maybe not the best in the
world but world class
is time
and so if you like that thing you're
excited by that thing then you put these
rules and so a simple rule may be
i don't check my phone under any
circumstance for any reason before 10 am
i don't know what your rule is going to
be it depends on what time you wake up
but for me i don't take meetings before
10 am the way i say it to myself is i
don't let anyone control my time before
10 am i don't take meetings from
anybody on the team at impact theory i
don't even take meetings with lisa
unless there's something really
like high
time pressure that needs to be dealt
with so i am in my own cocoon i have my
important things list and then that's
another rule that i go down my important
things list in order i always put the
highest priority thing first and then i
just work my way down also another very
important rule that anybody who's
familiar with me will know and have
heard me say a bazillion times i get out
of bed in 10 minutes or less and this
morning i struggle with that because i
struggle with it every day but because i
have a rule i actually get out of bed so
that is the key get that rule set figure
out what you need to do don't touch your
phone don't allow distractions and
remember
that you're not good enough yet you can
get good so get excited about the thing
you're pursuing which should make it a
lot easier to avoid the time wasting
things that are taking up your time now
three
speaking of adhd i have adhd which by
the way welcome to the club i did as
well growing up uh and i suppose i still
do now but i manage it so i have adhd
and i work an office job where i sit
down for eight hours a day i'm a very
physical person and all my jobs i had
prior to this i was always active in
moving which works best with my adhd i
tend to get bored and fidgety doing the
same thing all day and just sitting i'll
put music on or a show in the background
get up for short periods it becomes
really difficult to stay focused any
suggestions okay so we already talked in
the first question about things you can
do to elongate the time you're able to
focus on something so i would run
through all of that the diet the
exercise meditation all of it okay now
to push this farther and to give you
another way to think about this
sometimes
instead of pushing back against the way
that we are we can lean into it so
finding a way to structure your life
such that you have a job that actually
lets you do that so if you know hey i
need to be moving around i need to have
a high degree of physicality in my job
all of that find a job that lets you do
that you've already said that all of
your past jobs sound like they were more
suited to what you're doing now so that
basic question what does the ideal job
look like for you i'm guessing you've
taken other jobs in your life because
you wanted to move up right so you want
to make more money you want a better
title whatever the case may be and so
recognizing that where you're at now may
not be fully suited to where you want to
be so what are the things that need to
change and i think it is very
instructive for people to ask the
question who's living my ideal life
and that doesn't mean who's making the
most money it means what person's life
do you want to live the real day-to-day
grind of it
and when you identify what your dream
job is now we need to go about figuring
out how we get that job and so very
quickly a question about managing our
adhd and figuring out how to stay
focused actually becomes a question of
how do we get good at finding the right
job and so if you think about
orchestrating your life
and most people live
by the law of accident
i want to repeat that most people live
by the law of accident don't let that be
you right you bump into somebody they
know there's a job offering or it's
closer to where you live or it's you
know easier for you with the kids
whatever and so you bump into these
things it's like oh yeah cool i'll make
that little thing and instead of
designing your life you end up just
responding to sort of little bumps along
the road that end up leading you down a
path that was never a conscious choice
you want to sit down and map out okay we
know that we have we need a job that
meets certain criteria and one piece of
that criteria is that it allows you to
be very physical and get that energy out
okay so
take control of your lives i cannot
stress that one enough journaling is
hugely important recognizing where you
thrive where you don't thrive what are
deal breakers so it sounds like eight
hours behind a desk is a deal breaker
for you so map out those things take
very strict control of your life and
remember
this may be one of the things that
that has led me to have a career
a life
that
has certainly led to a tremendous amount
of joy in my life and looks like from
the outside
[Music]
impossible to obtain
i am an unreasonable person
and
i set aside all of my
lacking
elements all of my that's a weird way to
say inadequacies i set aside all the
things that i'm not good at because i
know it's all a process i can get good
at anything that i point myself at right
the only belief that matters if i put
time and attention to getting good at
this thing i actually will get good at
this thing
so i just set all of that aside okay
cool yeah whatever i'm not yet good
enough to have the life that i want my
ideal life but i'm gonna get good enough
and from that i
plant
a very unreasonable belief inside my
soul which is i can have any life i want
and now i just need to write out exactly
what that is and then i'm going to march
fiendishly down that road using the
rules that we talked about in question
two my ability to stay focused that i
cultivated from question one okay this
is real this is actually how i live
my life
all to now that i have this glowing
ember of determination in my soul to
live a life that everybody else thinks
is absurd beyond my reach which it
certainly is every time i begin in a
journey
but i know what i want i've hand crafted
the life that i desire and i know the
realities of who i am and what needs to
be true in order for me to
move well through the world right as
somebody who was diagnosed with adhd as
a kid i fully get it and so i have
tailored my life to that
momentum is everything to me because
i've got to always be moving i've got to
always feel like i can
have tomorrow be wildly different than
today
but i take responsibility for the fact
that i have to build that
and it's not going to happen by accident
the life i would be leading if i led my
life by accident would be radically
different it would not be tailored to
the things that i
want
so don't be afraid to want
don't be afraid to spend an inordinate
amount of time thinking about what you
really want
and then don't be afraid to be
unreasonable in accepting nothing less
now i could get into a whole thing about
pursuit
acquiring your goals is far less
important than sincerely pursuing them
but that is beyond the scope of this q a
all right so with that i'm going to move
on
number four my question is i'm a small
time youtuber just started making videos
for a few weeks now i've seen a lot of
videos on how to grow your channel and
what you should and should not post all
these things have created so much noise
in my mind that i need to do a lot of
things and have to put an ample amount
of effort to become successful in it
this noise is distracting me from being
myself and i just want to know if i
should do what other people are doing as
well even when i don't want to how
should i overcome this
okay so
while this may be slightly outside of
the the scope of traditionally what
people think of as distraction i really
like this idea of
the
all the different
voices in your head whether it's your
parents whether it's your friend whether
it's other youtubers also creating the
sense of distraction of i don't know
which path to choose now self-awareness
there is no question that it's one of
the most important things that anybody
could develop in their lives becoming
aware of translating how you're feeling
about something into words that you can
articulate i don't think there's
anything more powerful than journaling
for developing self-awareness which
again
self-awareness is about translating how
you feel
into an understanding of why you feel
that thing okay so that's going to be
the journal process this happened made
me feel some kind of way this is why i
think it made me feel some kind of way
and then you're going to get better and
better and better at that until you're
able to identify exactly what it is
that's bothering you in real time now
that's going to be facing a lot of
insecurities admitting
things about yourself that you may not
want to admit but that's going to open a
lot of doors for you because at least
you now understand your motivations okay
so now with that in mind we've got all
these voices that are raining down on us
but we've spent the time developing
self-awareness so when somebody tells us
hey you should do this to grow your
channel and we're like oh that makes me
feel some kind of way oh i don't like
that because i know the day-to-day grind
of doing xyz thing i won't enjoy doing
that so okay cool or the number of
people that have given me advice on how
to grow impact theory university that i
have ignored because i don't like the
way that being a hardcore salesman like
that makes me feel
and just being honest that that means
that i won't
generate as much revenue from impact
theory university as i could but to me
doing things like giving it away to
people that can't afford it yeah that
makes me feel the way that i want to
feel and so being honest with myself
about why i'm feeling the way that i'm
feeling and the real world consequences
of that is incredibly important so as
you get this advice on what you should
do to grow your channel if it doesn't
feel right identify why it doesn't feel
right and then steer towards what does
feel right because doing things that
make you feel better about yourself
that you love the difficult process of
doing will be far more rewarding because
here is the god's honest truth
the struggle is guaranteed the success
is not
nobody can guarantee that your channel
is going to grow not the way that you
want it to
but i can guarantee that it's going to
be hard
so if you know that something is going
to be hard and the outcome is wildly
uncertain then you want to make sure
that what you do you love the process of
and i intimated earlier that sincere
pursuit should be the thing that you
emotionally reward yourself for if you
show up every day unafraid to make a
mistake to put out a video on youtube to
see what works what doesn't work to try
things to
be courageous in the face of putting
something out there and people coming
after you saying it's garbage whatever
all the things that will inevitably
happen to you uh if you're on youtube
long enough um
but rewarding yourself for being
courageous enough to do it
for
not
succumbing to the noise
to refusing to be paralyzed by
indecision
for in the face of a tsunami of
distracting voices and differing
opinions
that you knew
in the end
the only thing that matters is action
there's a phrase that i think about
often and that is action cures all
if you have a problem i promise you
thinking about it isn't the solution
taking action is
hey like you i would go watch a
bazillion youtube videos but i wouldn't
watch a bazillion youtube videos on how
to do something before i tried it i
might watch a couple videos but i mean
literally a couple videos and then i
would immediately get involved in that
thing and you will find that in doing it
and trying to pull it off you learn
infinitely more you now have context for
what you're learning you now will maybe
steer your education in a different
direction i just cannot stress enough
you've got to take action you've got to
take action and in that all that din
that noise you're going to begin to
realize like wait a second these people
don't even know what they're talking
about because i'm actually out there
doing it these people do know what
they're talking about so i'm going to be
listening more to them but action cures
all like that has to be the mantra that
everybody lives by i cannot tell you
that the thing that has propelled me
forward is i'm so unafraid of
embarrassing myself
i know that when i get started on
something i'm going to look stupid and
my willingness to look stupid and not
try to pose or look cool to go out there
get kicked in the face embarrass myself
recollect myself
and move forward that's how i keep
winning and irony of ironies is if you
recognize that you should never judge
yourself through the lens of a moment
you should only judge yourself through
the lens of a lifetime or more
practically three-year movements
ten-year movements when you start
thinking like that then it's like i
laugh because all the people making fun
of me on a long enough timeline i will
beat them all
and i really believe that going back to
me being a very unreasonable person i
know that i will win
on a long enough timeline i can be
anyone at anything because i have the
only belief that matters that if i put
time and energy into getting better at
something i will actually get better now
most people can't do it most people
cannot get their ego out of the way most
people can't eliminate the distractions
most people succumb to the paralysis of
indecision they're so afraid to be
embarrassed that they let that noise
right the the very well-defined sense of
distraction from other people's voices
stopped them from growing from learning
from trying from taking
action
now if you take action and recognize
i'll get better these guys can make fun
of me they're never going to stick with
it they won't be able to deal with the
emotion of getting embarrassed of
failing at something of recognizing that
you truly aren't
good enough
yet now most people don't have the word
yet that you do you will use that as a
weapon and i know people hate it when i
use war language
but i love it
you will use it as a weapon that you
will wield
in your quest for success
it works so well
action cures all
number five
what tools can i use to help shut off my
brain from the millions of ideas when
i've chosen one to give all my energy
and focus to i left my job as vp of a
major food company after 10 years a year
ago to start my own business and i
struggle with being my own boss now that
i only have myself to hold myself
accountable but this business is my
livelihood and my future and my passion
project all right i love this man i can
relate to this heavily all right i've
always said that the thing that sobers
up entrepreneurs faster than anything is
to have your house on the line when
you've got a wife kids just rent to make
whatever even if you're a solo flyer but
you know you've got to eat all of a
sudden you become real sober about
either something is working or it is not
and when it is not working man you
better make a change and make a change
asap there's some real clarity to that
now i would say
that you want
and i can predict the the kickback i'm
going to get on this but this is the
truth and because i live it
every day as 50 cent said i came in the
game humble can't nobody tell me
now you want to tie your identity to
your success it's dangerous
because oh my god if you end up failing
you're going to have to backtrack real
fast and get your identity back out of
that but we're going to save that for
another class for now i'm going to tell
you hey
the fact that it's all writing on the
line the fact that you said you were
going to do this and now baby it's put
up or shut up
let that ride on you now be very careful
don't let it create so much pressure
that you become paralyzed because that
does not serve you we do and believe
that which moves us towards our goals so
we want the pressure but not so much
that it causes us to crack not so much
that it slows us down or
um you know puts us in this death spiral
right
you never allow yourself to say the
words i'm out of moves you're never out
of moves you're never out of options
right there is always something else
that you can do number one rule of being
an entrepreneur avoid a mortality event
the name of the game is to stay in
business long enough to figure it out it
is very okay to not know what you're
doing right now it is very much not okay
to stand still the only wrong move in
life
ever is standing still indecision will
kill you mistakes will not
now we can get into the idea of dent the
car don't total the car because of
course yes you could make a fatal
mistake but those are usually pretty
easy to spot if you ask yourself hey if
this fails do i go out of business if
the answer is yes don't even attempt it
move on to something where the answer is
no far better to take incremental steps
towards your goal to stay in the game
long enough to figure out exactly what
direction you want to be taking those
steps in then to do one sort of big put
it all on the roulette wheel embed it
all on black okay that we do not want to
do
stay in the game
tie your identity to that success be all
in
while i don't encourage people to burn
the ships to the shore i actually
encourage people keep your day job
you've already burned your ships to the
shore so you need to be honest that
behind you is the flaming wreckage of
your previous life now probably good to
hold a little nugget in your head
reminding you that you can always get
back to that because you have the skills
and skills have utility but for now
we're going to close the door on that
that's going to be the break clap break
glass in case of emergency sort of
notion for now we want to make sure that
since we left our previous job it's do
or die so let's do
now personally i respond well to that i
love that i love having things right on
it
but i'm very careful not to let that
overwhelm me so
the whole notion of overwhelm is outside
the scope of this question but i think
you're in a powerful position
but you have to embrace the do or die
mentality so get in there get after it
all right
number six working from home offers
quite a bit of distractions one i didn't
think i'd face is board eating during
the work day where do you think board
eating stems from how do you curb this
habit all right board eating is all
about dopamine so
what happens is you start doing a task
that task is difficult it
has a high cognitive load okay and when
you think about the brain is about three
pounds and yet it consumes about 20
percent of your calories so it is a tiny
percentage of your overall body weight
and yet calorically it is
wildly demanding so thinking actually is
hard and so when you get into something
and you're thinking about it and you hit
that sort of either it's boring it's
difficult it's forcing you to face your
inadequacies whatever it's the
antithesis of the dopamine reward that
you would get if you just pick up your
phone or god willing that you can go eat
something and eating is one especially
if you're wired like me eating is one of
the biggest dopamine rewards that you're
going to get it is truly a drug-like
effect
if that's you then you need to put in
parameters around your eating you need
to remember that you have a goal you're
working towards something and this is
critically important to understand
going back to construct your life
you should be pursuing a goal that
matters to you okay your goal should be
exciting and honorable okay exciting and
that you're amped up about it even
failing at that thing is fun and i think
that's one of the most important
questions anybody could ask themselves
what could i do
and love
even if i were failing now you're always
going to prefer winning at something
that you love over losing at something
that you love but there really are
things in your life that
are interesting enough to you doesn't
have to be some deep passion but they're
interesting enough to you that as you
pursue them they give you more energy
than they take now that doesn't mean
that you don't have overhead in your
life we all have it it's a great concept
from jeff bezos that no matter how much
you love your job there's always going
to be overhead there's going to be some
percentage of your job that you don't
like
i never need to work again and yet
i'm running a company where 30 percent
of my time 30 a full 30 of my time is
i hate i don't just dislike i
actively hate doing it
30 of my time is stuff that's fine it's
important it needs to be done not
necessarily thrilling and then only 40
is stuff that i'm ecstatic about but i'm
so excited by what we're trying to build
and i'm so sustained by the 70 that's
either fine important but needs to be
done maybe not the most thrilling but
fine and the 40 that i absolutely love
that i'm more than happy to slay the
dragons of the 30 of things that i hate
and for whatever reason i'm unable to
outsource to somebody else
so i've got this exciting goal it's
honorable i'm trying to help other
people is what i mean by that so it
doesn't just serve me it serves others
which is a huge dopamine reward for
a social animal okay that's critically
important so when i have that impulse to
stop doing the hard thing
and to go get something to eat and i
have even found myself getting up out of
my seat i'm literally three steps
towards the kitchen like what am i doing
and i sit myself back down so it is
crazy how fast you can slip into
autopilot that there is some part of
your brain that's telling you to pick up
your phone and look at it to um
check your email to go get something to
eat i think everybody feels those
distractions understanding that's your
brain crying out for a little dopamine
hit you've probably trained yourself to
do that either through frequent eating
or through
uh just training yourself to look at
your phone constantly which they are
designed to take over that mechanism to
shorten people's attention span to make
you crave that next hit and so we're
living in this crazy world of digital
distraction where we're trained to have
this shorter and shorter attention span
to crave that dopamine more and more so
now you're gonna have to do things to
unwind that rules around eating have
been very helpful for me so i eat two
meals a day that's it period end of
story and
i know
when the day begins exactly what i'm
going to be intaking so my calories are
always planned out except for saturday
saturday i go pretty hardcore sunday i
don't even worry about calories but i
limit the
options like i don't eat things with
sugar on sunday but i do on saturday
so
having rules that are
extraordinarily strict in fact here is
here's a great name for you guys to
remember around strict rules
bright lines
i don't remember who coined that phrase
i think it's brilliant so in your life
you need bright lines what are things
you allow yourself to do and don't allow
yourself to do and if you know hey this
is what i'm allowed to eat through the
day that's it or even these are the
times that i'm allowed to eat i have
very strict timelines around when i eat
so i eat my first meal usually around 8
30 9 o'clock and i eat my last meal
brace yourselves i eat my last meal
around 1 30 p.m
and so i have a nice 17 to 18 hour
window where i'm not eating
and i do that for a whole host of
reasons but i don't violate those rules
and so once you put those rules in place
sticking to them becomes far easier
because this is why jaco willing says
discipline is freedom when you know i
don't go outside of these lines i don't
break these rules these rules are hard
and fast they are bright lines now
there's no you know maybe i should maybe
i shouldn't it's like me and getting out
of bed in 10 minutes or less i never
want to every single day literally every
day of my life
my brain is kicking up excuses why today
i shouldn't have to get out of bed and
10 minutes less even i am startled that
after i've been doing this now for more
than 20 years even
20 years in i still
have to fight every day but i have
bright lines so there's no excuse so
literally when i think oh well today you
don't have to for xyz reasons
my conscious mind i've repeated it so
many times is this is a bright line
there are no excuses there is no reason
there is no if ands or buts you get out
of bed in 10 minutes or less full stop
period end of story
and so therefore i get out of bed but
you have to know what you're striving
for you have to know why you're doing
all of this why you're putting in all
these rules and it has to be something
you're actually interested in you're
actually excited about otherwise why why
are you limiting your life like this why
are you narrowing things down okay why
not go get the dopamine hit from the
fridge you have to have a reason right
you've got to know why you eat a certain
way or don't eat a certain way you've
got to know why you're working this hard
you've got to know why you push through
the difficult things okay nietzsche's
quote the person
with the right
why can survive almost anyhow okay you
have to know what your why is you've got
to know why you're pushing through all
this stuff but once you have that
you'll be able to slap some rules on
this and get to the other side
identity is another key component of
that i'm the type of person that follows
the rules i put and i put rules in place
to get me to my goals it'll be something
like that and that becomes a core part
of your identity when
to feel good about yourself you must
adhere to your rules and you love
feeling good about yourself so much that
you adhere to your rules even when it's
boring painful difficult
that's when things get really really
interesting
all right guys on the other side of
distraction is an extraordinary world
just waiting for you a highly
constructed world that truly is your
dream life put that unreasonable belief
in yourself that you can do this you
don't have to be good yet just believe
that you can get good and trust me my
friends not only can you get good you
can get extraordinary and speaking of
getting extraordinary if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching if you haven't already be sure
to smash that subscribe button and hit
the bell notification so you never miss
a thing until next time my friends be
legendary take care
you